r to the Second Edition

.This new edition of The Art dad Craft ofProhlcm Solving ‘s an expanded. and. I hope.
improved version of the original Work. There are several changes. including:

o A new chapter on geometry. It ‘5 long—as many pages as the eombinatorics
animtmber theory chapters combined—but it is merely an introduction to the
wbjeet. Expens are bound to be dissatisﬁed with the chapter‘s pace (slow. es—
pecnlly at the start) and missing topics (solid geometry, directed lengths and
angles, Desargoes‘s theorem. the 91mm circle). But this chapter is for begins
IRIS: hence its title. “Geometry for Americans.“ I hope that it gives the novice
problem solver the conﬁdence to investigate geometry problems as agressively
3 he or she might tackle discrete math questions.

0 An expamion to the calculus chapter. with many new problems.

0 More problems. especially “easy" ones. in several other chapters

To aceooumdate the new nuterial and keep the length under control. the problems are
it a two-column format with a smaller font. But don't let this smaller size fool you
into thinking that the problerm are less important than the rest of the book. As with the
ﬁrst edition the problems are the heart of the book. The serious reader should. at the
very least. read each problem statement. and attempt as many as possible. To facilitate
this. X hue expanded the number of problems discussed in the Hints appendix, which
now can be found online at ww.viley. com/college/zeitz.

I am still indebted to the people that I thanked in the preface to the ﬁrst edition. in
addition. I'd like to dunk the following people.

0 Jennifer Batiste and Ken Santor at Wiley expertly guided me through the revi-
sion process. never once losing patience with my procrastination.

0 Brian Borden. Joyce Cutler. Julie Levandoslty. Ken Monks. Deborah Moore-
Rtnso. James Stein. and Drag: thakovic carefully reviewed the manuscript.
fond many errors. and nude numerous important suggestions.

0 At the University ofSan anciseo. where l have worked since 1992. Dean
WRITE-pin an! Associate Dem Brandon Brown have generously supported
my exmrricular activities. including approval of a sabbatical leave during the
2015-06 anti-mic year whidt made on project possible.

0 Sim: I997, my uderstmding of problem solving has been enriched by my
work with a nmnber of Iced math circles and contests. The Mathematical
Sciences Reward: Institute (m1) has sponsored much of this activity. and
Inn particularly indebted to MSRl ofﬁcers Hugo Rossi. David Eisenbud, lirr
Sotjros. and Joe Buhler. Others who have helped me tremendously include Ton
Rite. Sun Vanthvelde. Mark Saul, Titima Shubin, Tom Davis. Josh Zuckez

an! especially. Zvenlelim Sunken.
h